>> Mike North: And there is a great
DevTools course on Frontend Masters you
should check out.
But there are two areas I wanna focus on,
in case some people have not seen that
one yet, two areas of Chrome DevTools.
And Chrome is what we're gonna be working
with all day, in terms of developer tools.
The first one I want you to pay
attention to is your Network tab.
And it looks like this.
I'm just gonna give you a quick
tour of what's going on here.
So, you would do this up like,
I still use Inspect element,
right-click anywhere on the page.
Click Inspect element, a thing will
pop up on the bottom of your browser.
And then click the Network tab on the top
of that new thing that popped up and
you will see something
that looks like this.
Now, you can set this up a number of ways,
but I want us to pay attention
to a couple of things.
First, we've got the name of requests
being sent out, and you can see that these
look like API calls because you see
that /api in the grey text on the left.
This is because I've used this top filter
here to filter for Only XHR, right?
This is ajax.
That filter box, by the way,
that can take either a string literal and
it will go and look for
matches that match that string.
You could also put a regular
expression in there.
So this is great if you had some chatter
back and forth between two different
system components and maybe you've
got a word send and a word receive.
And you wanna sort of take away all of the
noise except those things that say send or
receive.
You could just write a regular
expression with an or operator in there.
It would be,
slash send pipe receive slash.
And that regex will be
honored in the filter.
We've got a status where you see
your HTTP response status code,
and these are 200s,
meaning everything looks good.
For protocol here, we're gonna be
touching on HTTP/2 a little bit today.
For the last, gosh,
30 years the web was operated on
HTTP/1 and as our apps get more and
more complicated it is necessary for
the standard to evolve.
So, I want us to be able to
see the difference between
those two types of requests.
And then we've got this Size column.
As we start to deal with
something called service workers,
we'll be able to use this to identify what
is a request that's going to the outside
world versus what's one
chunk of your app asking.
We'll have two chunks
of our application and
sort of one will send
the request to the other and
the other will satisfy that request
instead of going to the outside world.
That is the ultra high
level service worker idea.
And then finally, we've got Time and
this Waterfall tick here.
And the reason they're so
thin is that I have used
this filter on the top, it's sort of
below this millisecond marks to sort of
narrow the timeline to
a particular moment.
But if you hover over these little
waterfall things you can see all
of the time that you're spent waiting for
the browser to allow a request to go out.
You can see DNS resolution,
you can see the overhead required for
establishing a secure connection.
So you can really drill down and
see what's going on there.
So that's the Network tab, and
then there's this Performance tab.
And we can think of this as
being divided into three chunks.
The first is the timeline and
this is just sort of the superposition of
how hard your CPU's working,
how much memory you're consuming,
whether it's rendering that's taking
a lot of CPU versus computation.
So that's on the top here.
Below that we have network requests.
And being able to see this
side by side is really useful.
This is not the starting point
app that we're looking at.
This is not a measurement of the app
as it is right now, in Master.
What you would see, because of
this little screenshot film strip,
right above the millisecond marks here,
you would see that this
yellow bar in the network section, which
represents downloading the JavaScript.
You'd have a completely blank screen until
that JavaScript landed, because that
JavaScript is responsible for doing
100% of the visual stuff on the screen.
But it's a great way to sort of see
the interaction between something
came over the network,
then my cpu started working really hard.
Then all of the animations on my page
started getting really choppy and
I couldn't scroll smoothly.
You wanna kinda see them all
side by side on one axis.
And then below that we can see what
is called the flame chart, and
this represents how much time each
function takes to be invoked.
And if you hover over these little
sections here and you can zoom in and
zoom out to sort of stretch this out and
focus on a particular area.
You can see that some of them are really
thin and some of them are sort of fatter.
We aspire to allow our web apps
to work at 60 frames per second.
And that only allows us about
13 milliseconds maximum
per function invocation.
That is our budget, before we start
interfering with the ability to
sort of scroll smoothly or
animate things on screen.
In JavaScript we're working on one thread,
and everything we're doing is a very
complicated process of bookkeeping and
adjusting this animation a little bit.
And now let's do some
computationally intensive work and
then draw one more frame of the animation,
it's a lot of multitasking.
But this is where you can look to see if
there are massive performance issues and
I'm going to walk you right
into a major performance issue.
It's a function that takes
about 20 seconds to invoke, so
it will be the obvious culprit when you
start doing this performance analysis.
But knowing how to read this
flame chart is important.
And we call it flames because
it's solid at the top,
and it looks kind of like
fire as it comes down.
You can think of it as a function
is one section of the flame chart,
one row, or cell, I guess you can call it.
And then any functions that it
invokes will be the next level down.
So you can see that we start out course,
but
then things sort of split up as
we go down and down and down.
And so if you wanna figure out
what is causing this freeze,
what is taking a long time?
It would be a conspicuously wide bar, and
then you could sort of drill down and
figure out.
Well, when we get down to it,
I'm allocating a thousand arrays here,
that's the problem.
Maybe there is something we can do
to avoid that and make this faster.
So these tools have been around for
a while.
As we lean more on our client side apps,
as we try to push more responsibility
in the direction of the browser,
this starts to become a must as
supposed to something we look
at when we encounter a problem.
You wanna keep an eye on this as you
develop rather than waiting until
a problem occurs.
Because oftentimes it's like a death
from a thousand paper cuts that makes
things slow.
And by the time things are slow,
there are 50 different
tasks you have to perform
in order to speed it up.